## About
I am an Associate Professor at the <a href="http://csai.nl">Department of Cognitive Science and Artificial Intelligence</a> at 
<a href="http://www.tilburguniversity.edu/">Tilburg University</a>, the Netherlands.

## Research Interests

I am mainly interested in studying language learning using computational models. My main area of research is modeling grounded language learning, the impact of interaction in language acquisition and processing, and developing tools and techniques for better understanding of emergent linguistic representations in (neural) models of language.

## News and Activities

- Received an e-Science Center/NWO grant for the project "Understanding visually grounded spoken language via multi-tasking" (apply [here]).
- Organizer of <a href="">BlackboxNLP</a> workshop at <a href="">EMNLP 2018</a>.
- Area chair for <a href="http://coling2018.org/">COLING 2018</a>.


## Publications

- Ákos Kádár, Grzegorz Chrupała and Afra Alishahi (2017). <a href="http://arxiv.org/abs/1602.08952">Representation of linguistic form and function in recurrent neural networks</a>. To appear in <i>Computational Linguistics</i>.
- Afra Alishahi, Marie Barking and Grzegorz Chrupała (2017). <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03815">Encoding of phonology in a recurrent neural model of grounded speech</a>. In <i>Proceedings of Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL)</i> (<b>Winner of the Best Paper Award</b>).
- Grzegorz Chrupała, Lieke Gelderloos and Afra Alishahi (2017). <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1702.01991">Representations of language in a model of visually grounded speech signal</a>. In <i>Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL)</i>.
- Yevgen Matusevych, Afra Alishahi and Ad Backus (2017). Quantifying cross-linguistic influence with a computational model: A study of case-marking comprehension. <i>Linguistic Approaches to Bilingualism</i>. Advance online publication. DOI: 10.1075/lab.16038.mat. [<a href="papers/LAB_2017.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Yevgen Matusevych, Afra Alishahi and Ad Backus (2017). The impact of first and second language exposure on learning second language constructions. <i>Bilingualism: Language and Cognition</i>, 20(1), 128–149. DOI: 10.1017/S1366728915000607. [<a href="papers/BLC_2016.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Yeven Matusevych, Afra Alishahi and Ad Backus (2016). Modeling verb selection within argument structure constructions. Language, Cognition and Neuroscience, 31(10), 1215–1244. DOI: 10.1080/23273798.2016.1200732. [<a href="papers/LCN_2016.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Ákos Kádár, Grzegorz Chrupała, Afra Alishahi (2016). <a href="http://www.atala.org/Learning-word-meanings-from-images">Learning word meanings from images of natural scenes</a>. <i>Traitement Automatique des Langues (TAL)</i>, Special Issue on "Natural Language Processing and Cognition".
- Moinuddin M. Haque, Paul Vogt, Afra Alishahi and Emiel Krahmer (2016). A connectionist model for automatic generation of child-adult interaction patterns.  In <i>Proceedings of the 38th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society</i>, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
- Grzegorz Chrupała, Ákos Kádár and Afra Alishahi (2015). <a href="http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P/P15/P15-2019.pdf">Learning language through pictures</a>. In <i>Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL)</i>.
- Yevgen Matusevych, Afra Alishahi and Ad Backus (2015). Distributional determinants of learning argument structure constructions in first and second language. In <i>Proceedings of the 37th Annual Conferene of the Cognitive Science Society</i>, Pasadena, USA. [<a href="papers/Matusevych.etal.CogSci2015.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi (2014). Lifecycle of a probabilistic construction. <i>Theoretical Linguistics</i>, 40:1-2, 77-88.
[<a href="papers/Alishahi.TL2014.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Yevgen Matusevych, Afra Alishahi and Ad Backus (2014). Isolating second language acquisition factors: A computational model of bilingual construction learning. In <i>Proceedings of the 36th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society</i>, Quebec City, Canada. [<a href="papers/Matusevych.etal.CogSci2014.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Daniel Freudenthal and Afra Alishahi (2014). Computational models of Language Development. In P. Brooks and V. Kempe (eds), <i>Encyclopedia of Language Development.</i> SAGE Publications.
[<a href="papers/Freudenthal.Alishahi.ELD2013.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Eva van den Bemd, Maria Mos and Afra Alishahi (2014). <a href="https://www.univie.ac.at/linguistics/publications/wlg/78A2014/Wohlmuth.pdf">Does sentence structure boost early
word learning? An artificial language learning study</a>. <i>Wiener Linguistische Gazette</i>, Issue 78A.
- Thierry Poibeau, Aline Villavicencio, Anna Korhonen, and Afra Alishahi (2013). Cognitive Aspects of Computational Language Acquisition. Springer.
- Afra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson (2013). Gradual Acquisition of Verb Selectional Preferences in a Bayesian Model. In T. Poibeau, A. Villavicencio, A. Korhonen, and A. Alishahi (eds).<i>Cognitive Aspects of Computational Language Acquisition</i>. Springer.
- Yevgen Matusevych, Afra Alishahi and Paul Vogt (2013). Automatic generation of naturalistic child-adult interaction data. In <i>Proceedings of the 35th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society</i>, Berlin, Germany. [<a href="papers/Matusevych.etal.CogSci2013.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Yevgen Matusevych, Afra Alishahi and Ad Backus (2013). Computational simulations of second language construction learning. In <i>Proceedings of the Workshop on Cognitive Modeling and Computational Linguistics, ACL'2013</i>. [<a href="papers/Matusevych.etal.CMCL2013.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
 - Afra Alishahi and Grzegorz Chrupała (2012). Concurrent acquisition of word meaning and lexical categories. <i>Proceedings of the 2012 Conference on Empirical Methods on Natural Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning (EMNLP-CoNLL 2012)</i>, Jeju, Korea. [<a href="papers/Alishahi-Chrupala-emnlp2012.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi, Afsaneh Fazly, Judith Koehne and Matthew Crocker (2012). <a href="http://www.frontiersin.org/developmental_psychology_/10.3389/fpsyg.2012.00200/abstract">Sentence-based attentional mechanisms in word learning: Evidence from a computational model</a>. Frontiers in Developmental Psychology. [<a href="papers/Alishahi.etal.Frontiers2012.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi and Pirita Pyykk&ouml;nen (2011). The onset of syntactic bootstrapping in word learning: Evidence from a computational study. <i>Proceedings of the 33nd Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society</i>, Boston. [<a href="papers/Alishahi_Pyykkonen_CogSci11.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Alexis Palmer, Afra Alishahi, and Caroline Sporleder (2011). Robust Semantic Analysis for Unseen Data in FrameNet. RANLP 2011, Hissar, Bulgaria. [<a href="papers/Palmer_Alishahi_Sporleder_RANLP11.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afsaneh Fazly, Afra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson (2010). A probabilistic computational model of cross-situational word learning. <i>Cognitive Science</i>, 34:6, 1017-1063. [<a href="papers/FazlyEtAl-CSJ10.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson (2010). Learning general properties of semantic roles from usage data: a computational model. <i>Language and Cognitive Processes</i>, 25:1, 50-93. [<a href="papers/LCP2010-Alishahi-Stevenson.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi and Afsaneh Fazly (2010). Integrating Syntactic Knowledge into a Model of Cross-situational Word Learning. <i>Proceedings of the 32nd Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society</i>, Portland, Oregon. [<a href="papers/Alishahi_Fazly_CogSci10_categorization.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Grzegorz Chrupała and Afra Alishahi (2010). Online Entropy-based Model of Lexical Category Acquisition. <i>Proceedings of the 14th Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL)</i>, Uppsala, Sweden. [<a href="papers/Chrupala_Alishahi_CoNLL10_categorization.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afsaneh Fazly, Fatemeh Ahmadi-Fakhr, Afra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson (2010).  Cross-situational Learning of Low Frequency Words: The Role of Context Familiarity and Age of Exposure. <i>Proceedings of the 32nd Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society</i>, Portland, Oregon. [<a href="papers/Fazly_etal_CogSci2010.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi (2010). <a href="http://www.morganclaypool.com/doi/abs/10.2200/S00304ED1V01Y201010HLT011">Computational Modeling of Human Language Acquisition</a>. Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Technologies, Morgan & Claypool.
- Afra Alishahi and Grzegorz Chrupała (2009). Lexical category acquisition as an incremental process. <i>Proceedings of the CogSci2009 workshop on Psychocomputational Models of Human Language Acquisition</i>, Amsterdam, Netherlands. [<a href="papers/AlishahiChrupala-CategoryInduction.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson (2008). A computational model for early argument structure acquisition. <i> Cognitive Science</i>, 32:5, 789-834. [<a href="papers/CSJ2008-alishahi-stevenson.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi, Afsaneh Fazly and Suzanne Stevenson (2008). Fast mapping in word learning: What probabilities tell us. <i>Proceedings of the 12th Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning</i>, Manchester, UK. [<a href="papers/fm-margin.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afsaneh Fazly, Afra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson (2008). A probabilistic incremental model of word learning in the presence of referential uncertainty. <i>Proceedings of the 30th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society</i>, Washington, D.C. <b>(Cognitive Science 2008 Prize for the Best Paper on Language Modeling.)</b> [<a href="papers/FazlyEtAl-COGSCI08.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson (2007). A cognitive model for the representation and acquisition of verb selectional preferences. In <i>Proceedings of the  ACL-2007 Workshop on Cognitive Aspects of Computational Language Acquisition </i>, pages 41-48, Prague, Czech Republic. [<a href="papers/AlishahiStevenson-SelectionalPreferences.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson (2007). A computational usage-based model for learning general properties of semantic roles. In <i> Proceedings of the 2nd European Cognitive Science Conference</i>, Delphi, Greece. [<a href="papers/Alishahi_Stevenson_eurocogsci07.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson (2005). A probabilistic model of early argument structure acquisition. In <i> Proceedings of the 27th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society</i>, pages 97-102, Stresa, Italy. <b>(Marr Prize for Best Student Paper, Honorable Mention.)</b> [<a href="papers/alishahi-stevenson-cogsci05.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson (2005). The acquisition and use of argument structure constructions: a Bayesian model. In <i>Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Psycho-computational Models of Human Language Acquisition (ACL 2005)</i>, pages 82-90, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA. [<a href="papers/alishahi-stevenson-acl05.pdf" style="color:red;">pdf</a>]
- Afra Alishahi and Caro Lucas (1998). An Automatic Fuzzy Clustering Approach to Concept Retrieval and Classification of Unstructured Documents, accepted in <i>JCIS98</i>, North Carolina, USA.
- Afra Alishahi and Caro Lucas (1998). A Hybrid Neural Network for Concept                                          Clustering. Irano-Armenian Workshop on Neural Networks, Armenia.
- Afra Alishahi (1997). An Intelligent System for Presenting Distributed Statistics, <I>Proceedings of 6th Conference of Information Technology in Iran Power Industry</I>, Tehran, Iran. 
- Afra Alishahi and Ramin Ghourchian (1996). Applying Non-deterministic 
Algorithms in Simulation of Food Finding of Ants. In <i>17th Seminar of Intelligent Systems</i>, ISRF, Iran.
